Update plugins install docs for v1.11.0 (#12995)
hashicorp/packer: website/content/docs/upgrade/v1_11.mdx

---

# Upgrade to v1.11

This topic describes how to upgrade to v1.11. Refer to the [Packer v1.11 release notes](/packer/docs/release-notes/v1_11) for information about changes in v1.11 from the previous release.

## Upgrade from v1.10

Modifications to existing templates are not required between Packer 1.10 and 1.11.

However, plugin management may need to change as we removed support for some alternatives:

* Single-component plugins (e.g. `packer-builder-hashicups-coffee`) are not supported anymore.
  If you are still using those plugins, we urge you to update your dependencies to multi-component plugins (e.g. `packer-plugin-hashicups`)

* Plugins now all have to be installed in the plugins directory, under a hierarchy that matches the expected source, with a specific naming convention, and with an accompanying sumfile.
  This method of installation is now the standard with all commands, including `packer init` and `packer plugins install`.
  If you are not using them yet, we advise you to adopt them, as they will simplify how you interact with Packer plugins.

* Version standardisation: version management for Packer plugins was permissive in previous versions.

>   Packer 1.11 standardises how plugin versions need to present, including official support for `-dev` prereleases with commands and templates.

Reviewer: I'm not sure of the `within` phrasing here, as we explicitly reject `-dev` suffixes in constraints, so you cannot specify e.g. `version = "= 1.0.1-dev"` in a HCL2 template.

>   Packer 1.11 standardises how plugin versions need to present, including official support for `-dev` prereleases with commands and templates.

Reviewer 2: I updated the sentence a bit. Does that capture the intent you were going for?

>   Packer 1.11 standardises how plugin versions need to present, including official support for `-dev` prereleases with commands and templates.

Reviewer: That reword looks good to me yep!

### Plugin local installation

If you cannot remotely install a plugin for any reason (firewalls, Github blocked, etc.), you can use the local installation methods.
Once you have gotten the plugin binary, you can then install it for Packer to use through the `packer plugins install --path` command.
This will place the plugin binary in the location that Packer expects it to be, with the correct naming scheme and sumfile, so Packer will be
able to load it, even with a `required_plugins` block in a template.

### Using `required_plugins`

In some cases, Packer will hint at using `required_plugins` block in your template.
With such a block, this opens the possibility to use `packer init` to automatically install plugins, and check that your environment is ready to build your template.
While this is the preferred way to manage the plugins you need in order to build your images, this is not a hard requirement.
You can still install plugins independently of a template by using the `packer plugins install` command variants.
If you are using HCL for your templates, the choice belongs to you, while if you are using JSON, that alternative will be what you need to use.

> ### Installing plugins in one shared directory
> 
> This section is mostly split in two use-cases:
> 
> 1. Installation of all the plugins as `packer-plugin-<name>` under a single root directory
> 2. Installation of plugins with the convention described above.
> 
> If you are looking for alternative 1, this is unfortunately not supported anymore.
> The reason being that this method was conflicting with `required_plugins`, so we decided to consolidate how loading plugins is done around this method.

Reviewer 2: I find the mention of the second option confusion as we don't actually talk about it.

That said, I reword to call out why we made the change. What do you think?

```suggestion
### Installing plugins outside of namespace directories

Previously Packer supported the use of plugins as `packer-plugin-<name>` under a single root directory. In Packer 1.11 this functionality was removed to enhance support for using non-GitHub and development prerelease plugin binaries within required_plugins block.
```

description: Learn how to upgrade your Packer installation to v1.11
---

# Upgrade to v1.11

This topic describes upgrade considerations for Packer v1.11. Refer to the [v1.11 release notes](/packer/docs/release-notes/v1_11) for details about changes in v1.11.

## Overview

> You can use the upgrade command for the package manage you installed Packer with or download and replace the existing binary to upgrade Packer. Refer to [Install Packer](/packer/install) for instructions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the upgrade command for the package manager you installed Packer with or download and replace the existing binary to upgrade Packer. Refer to [Install Packer](/packer/install) for instructions
```

## Troubleshooting

This section provides guidance on potential issues you may experience after upgrading.

### Missing plugins error

Packer may report that you one or more plugins are missing after the upgrade.
This may occur if you had used one of the following plugin installation methods that are longer supported:

* Installed the plugin to the directory Packer is invoked from.
* Installed the plugin alongside the Packer binary.
* Installed the plugin under the root of the `PACKER_PLUGIN_PATH` directory.

For any missing components, you may need to reinstall their respective plugins as described in [Installing Plugins](/packer/docs/plugins/install).

### Use `required_plugins` message

Packer may print a message directing you to specify plugins in the `required_plugins` block in your template and install them using the `packer init` command.
This is the preferred way to manage the plugins, but it is not required. You can still install plugins manually using the `packer plugins install` command. Refer to [Installing Plugins](/packer/docs/plugins/install)

### Blocked remote access to plugin 

> If you cannot remotely install a plugin for any reason, such as a firewall configuration or GitHub is blocking access, you can use the local installation methods. Refer to [Installing Plugins](/packer/docs/plugins/install)

Reviewer 2: Do we have an anchor to the local installation method? It looks like the sentence before provides direction on where to go.

> If you cannot remotely install a plugin for any reason, such as a firewall configuration or GitHub is blocking access, you can use the local installation methods. Refer to [Installing Plugins](/packer/docs/plugins/install)

Reviewer: Subsections are automatically anchors, so I believe it is possible.
That being said it doesn't need to happen now, it can be updated in a subsequent PR if needed
